so the world has become very diverse and
everybody has some ethnic background and
when we say ethnic facial plastic
surgery what we mean is changes made to
the face with him ethnic noms mean and
it takes into consideration features
that are ethnically defines someone's
ethnicity so that you make changes that
doesn't make you fit in the group that
you belong to this has to do with how
you reshape the eyes it also has to do a
lot with how you reshape the nose and
sometimes the jaw and structure of the
face so in general ethnic facial plastic
surgery and seeks to balance the face
without making features look out of
place so for example if someone who has
an Asian background comes to me and
wants some reshaping done to the face
and you have one has to know how the
Asian skin responds to surgery and
factor it into into that surgery when
they are planning the surgery one also
has to take in consideration the jaw
structure of people of Asian ethnicity
so that all the surgical techniques that
I developed will be will be congruent
with yes basically the same is true for
someone of African background they are
prone to skerin so whereas in one
particular ethnic group in sessions can
be liberally made in the air someone
with an African background you would be
very careful where you place incisions
so all these features and a means of
would heal and I'll factor into the
ethnic sensitive facial plastic surgery
so ethnic sensitive rhinoplasty is a
term that is being increasingly used to
define nasal reshaping that is agnes
ethnically congruent what do I mean by
that if I see anyone of Hispanic
background there are some features on
their face that I can tells me this is a
Hispanic patient if I put a nose on that
face and looks african-american that
nose may look good in pictures by it's
totally out of place the same will go
with me putting a classically Caucasian
nose on an African face it may look good
but it's out of place so ethnic
sensitive rhinoplasty will be
rhinoplasty or nasal reshaping that
gives a natural-looking nose that fits
the remaining ethnic features of course
everyone who comes for nasally shaping
may not like certain features or aspects
of their nose that they want to reshaped
and as we are considering and planning
the surgery we have to take overall look
of your face and make sure that
everything that we change balances in
the end and ethnically sensitive
rhinoplasty looks good it looks natural
doesn't look operated and it's not the
center of attraction when it's done so
people communicate with a nice looking
eyes and not with the nose there are
some individuals and it tends to be
isolated in some ethnicity but not
exclusively who have who may have very
strong features that may make them
either extremely feminine or masculine
for example common among Asian females
will be a strong square jaw which
features that we tend to see in the male
population and there are some specific
surgeries designed to change the shape
of the jaw to make it more feminine and
there are various terms that have been
used to describe it a common term is
called the asian v-line and what do we
do if you have an outstanding jaw
angle of the jaw that makes it too
strong for a feminine phase we have an
ultrasonic dissector that we can go in
through the mouth
and sort of contour the jaw and make it
get a nice carriage and may give a very
ethnic and looking defined feminine
looking face and in some cases a very
strong cheek
that is just out of place someone has a
slender over looking face by a thick big
cheekbone or job board that shows all
the picture out of balance in jory
shaping we can really carefully and
precisely reshape those bones to give
them feminine feminizing and look on the
opposite hand a male may have a
feminizing look new strong jaw with chin
and there are things that you can do to
control those bones to give them a very
strong chiseled look and to sort of wait
doing your research is very good no more
one you want to go to a surgeon who is
very comfortable doing that procedure
secondly you would like someone who
really understands your goals because I
believe one of the most common reason
that people are not satisfied with
facial plastic surgery is their
inability to communicate with the eye
surgeons exactly what you want it's
always my goal that if to make my
patients happy and to do so I have to
know what exactly do you want and they
have to have it means of communicating
with me what they want so first be sure
that you are comfortable with the
passenger cause consulting with that you
can communicate your goals with them
clearly be open to the LED telling you
that this cannot be done and also kind
of factor it as you make your decisions
also go to someone who works with a team
that not just good outcome and it's very
good that the anesthesiologist who works
with these surgeons are very capable
because this usually is an elective
surgery and you want to go in safely and
come out safely the aftercare is also
very important so you should look at the
whole team the team that kind of works
towards getting the best outcome for you
so at Johns Hopkins a division of facial
plastic surgery we have a full cost
interest in ethnic sensitive surgery
what do I mean by that we have found
ways to analyze nose of losses of every
ethnicity and faces of every ethnicity
we've done research to support this and
we always push to get the best outcome
for our patients and if you choose to
have your ethnic sensitive surgery done
here we will do everything to make sure
that you that the experience will be
excellent for you
you